In previous part I told you how we created the server side using java for the DHCP server and client.
So if you observe inside our ID or code.
I'm using your port number as 1500 1500 as a port number.
So as you can see, I'm using some default things here.
So you should require this Java eight library.
And by default, it reads TCP connection.
Internally using TCP protocol, protocol, all the closing and each and everything.
So what I'm going to do is now I'm need to create some client threads.
As I mentioned here, I'm using client, but what is the client thread?
It will use some multithreading concepts.
So before that I will explain multi-threading concepts.
So TCP server client.
As I told you, there is one client process and server process.
What it will be happen when server code runs on the server side.
It will be live.
Or we can say online.
Now client will ask to server or request the server to join me inside that server.
So this is one client process inside that it consists TCP IP network, which network driver throughout
the network and another network driver.
It will be connected to this.
So there is one socket layer, device layer, protocol layer each and everything inside TCP server client
process.
So this is only one client, but in our case we need more processes, which is basically more clients.
For that purpose, we can create more processes, but our servers program or we can say server configuration,
which is I'm considering your localhost, my own machine.
It is very less compatible for handling such processes.
It can handle around ten process, 12 process.
But in a real scenario, we want to connect more clients like in a group of your any chat system you
have on participants.
Basically 100 clients.
Similarly, I want to create such a scenario for that purpose.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to handle it by multithreading.
So what is Multithreading?
You know the process.
What you can do.
You can divide that process into task one and task.
So that is the multi trade concept.
You can divide the process into different, different threads and you can create as a task and you can
use that process as a task.
So consider like you want to take some or you want to buy some vegetables from market, but you have
given the sequence like first then.
Or you can say you have to buy buy some three vegetables for vegetables.
But sequence is not given what you can do and you want to buy also fruits.
So meanwhile, you can buy one vegetable, you can buy one fruit.
After that, you can buy two vegetables.
You can buy one fruit again.
According to timestamp, the system requirement system configuration multi trade will be handled through
the virtual machine.
So if that such task like process divided into the task for tasks five task is divided for second task
if it's taking too much time.
Over the Java virtual machine actually calculates how much time it requires.
But if that time is more than other process tasks, it will use that process and it simultaneously runs
both processes.
In this time will be very less.
Or we can say time, complexity will be very less.
Our system utilization is at maximum level.
So Multithreading is a good application part for our chat.
So what is Multithreading in the Java?
Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously, as I told you.
Threads are basically tasks in our sub process, as you can say.
So you can execute multi thread simultaneously.
A thread is lightweight, so process smallest unit of processing, multi processing and multithreading.
Both are used to achieve multitasking.
What is multitasking?
Now we can say I'm connecting a client.
As I'm telling you, I'm creating client thread here.
So what it will be do it will similarly give that client information to server simultaneously.
It will connect that client to the server simultaneously.
It will ask name for that client.
Then simultaneously it will ask for a message.
Simultaneously, server can do some another utilization also.
So what it will be do while inviting a client or inviting a user's server never be done.
We can say server always be like.
So Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of program
for the maximum utilization of CPU.
Or you can say process or your system.
Each part of such program is called thread, so thread is a lightweight process within the process.
So what you can do, you can perform threads using two mechanism, expanding the thread class, implementing
the enable base interface basically.
So these are the two methods.
Or you can say two given types of Java, both works similar.
There is no difference between of them.
There are slight difference in the Enable interface and trade class.
Here I am creating another class client thread and I'm going to expand that to the thread class, which
is basically default class.
So let me go with that.
So as I told you, we are done with this with some clientele.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm mentioning the class here.
The class name should be client thread because as I mentioned already.
Nine.
Today.
Exchange.
Trade.
So as you can see, I invoke that client part and you can see now this is working like that class is
invoking here.
Client three each and every everything.
As a top.
I know this program is very lengthy, so I'm explaining step by step.
Then I need to what I need to create is there is only one instance.
I will explain it.
One instance.
Of.
This thread.
Will.
But then for each client.
So for each client, it will execute one thing.
And we can create more than 102,000 trades in Java according to the that Java as a virtual machine.
So we no need to require some any higher computer or we can say you can invoke it as what you want.
Then I need to create sock it here, sock it to get message.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to mention socket.
Socket.
That socket then.
Object input stream I need to maintain because why I'm using object input stream.
You will understand.
Here, let me put this.
It's.
You already mentioned here.
Let me check where I mentioned that as input.
So as input, it's for the putting that inside the S or we can say in object output stream as this is
the ArrayList I need to create object output string input string for that purpose I created a input
variable here already.
I mentioned here now because I created that part.
If you want to create, you can create flows client plus client ID and you can go to the main part.
But I'm going.
Then I need to mention object on stream.
Its output.
Then.
New dimension, unique ID.
By UniCredit, it is easier for de connexion de connecting everything.
It is very easier if you are visiting that part.
Username.
Which is basically string.
As I told you, I already created each and every thing here.
Then.
Message object.
Who?
This new message.
So what did we do?
It's a chat message.
Chat message?
See him.
So I will tell you why I'm using your chat message.
And what is the chat message here?
I already created this chat message, as you can see in this class.
So I will create one program here and I'm using that programming service I haven't created.
I will create that part.
I'm for that time.
What I'm mentioning here is string date.
Then I need to create a constructor because for the passing value you can directly pass through the
what you can say arguments or you can create a constructor for that purpose.
Or that is what I'm going to client in same name.
Socket should be there.
So it should be there.
Or you can see arguments.
Again.
ID I.D. is very important because ID is equal to plus plus unique ID.
So.
So what is this unique idea I'm going to do is I'm going to create that letter.
I will tell you.
So.
Let me check all the things here.
Okay.
Now what I'm going to do is plus plus incredibly basically what I'm going to do is.
Then socket.
Socket.
Is equal to socket.
So it will definitely go further and further and assigning to that part.
And what I'm going to mention is here's some statement.
To check everything, correct or not.
Or you can say trade is trying to create each and everything you can do.
I will bring this here.
Objective streams.
So we already created this part.
And what I'm going to do is know.
Or.
I'm going to.
Check here basically because I made a mistake in naming part.
Basically this should be.
Because it should be plus plus in that part.
Now, so what I did is just.
Is the part.
What he's doing is.
Okay.
So why it is giving me the error is basically because of I created a private static unified.
And what I did is I closed that class already.
Or inside main metal.
You can see this class.
So what I can do is instead of closing this class inside this, I can close this.
Inside this.
So now you can say you will be running.
The errors will be less severe.
This is for the server.
This is for the client threads.
And this is for the client.
So.
Insert this.
I need to create each and everything.
I need to invoke that socket.
So what I'm going to do is.
After this is done.
I need to create one or begin creating chocolate or creating a connection.
I already mentioned each and everything above, but I need to mention the output as input each and everything.
So let me do that stuff first.
It should be in large block.
So what is the significance of this is.
Oh.
8:00 catch clothes.
We need to mention the exception also.
You're.
Okay.
So I will explain it later.
Let me do that first.
What I am mentioning is I created a stream and inside this I'm putting that input in as I told you I
created already.
Similarly for the input using this, I'm reading the username and putting that object and I'm broadcasting
it directly to the notify.
Which is basically that start, start.
And after after this catch close, I need to mention that catch extra catch clause for the class.
Not also.
So these are also required.
So now you can see the object will be gone.
And what I'm going to do is system, dot, dot print and I'm printing that stuff.
So how we can mention this and after this I need to mention the date also because it should print a
date.
So after this, it will bring the date.
Read how you can create this client constructor and each and everything.
So now we are remaining with some more extra part with get username concepts and each and everything.
I will tell you in these only how we are going to do that stops.
And.
Hope you understand this.
Stick to this topic.
And in a later part I'm going to create some Java swing also.
So I will tell you.
But inside that I'm not mentioning all the stops.
I mentioned the only light part and some string concepts.
So this is how we can create a server.
But we are remaining with client.
But also client part is very easy.
So we can create in within around 50 lines of code and chat message.
I'm going to mention all the chat messages.
So once we establish all the server connection, we can proceed with client and chat message also.